# Automatic Assistance to Mitigate Rollback Inconsistencies in Collaborative Edits

*Abstract:* The success of technical Q&A sites such as Stack Overflow depends on two key factors: (a) active user participation and (b) the quality of the shared knowledge. Stack Overflow introduced an edit system that allows users to sug- gest improvements to posts (i.e., questions and answers) to enhance the quality of the content. However, users, such as post owners or site moderators, can re- ject these suggested edits by rollbacks due to unsatisfactory, low-quality edits or violating edit guidelines. Unfortunately, subjectivity bias in determining whether an edit is satisfactory or unsatisfactory can lead to inconsistencies in the rollback decisions. For example, one user might accept the formatting of a method name (e.g., getActivity()) as a code term, while another might reject it. Such inconsis- tencies can demotivate and frustrate users whose edits are rejected. Furthermore, several post owners prefer to keep their content unchanged and even resist neces- sary edits. As a result, they sometimes roll back necessary edits and revert posts to a flawed version, which violates editing guidelines. The problems mentioned above are further compounded by the lack of specific guidelines and tools to assist users in ensuring consistency in user rollback actions. In this study, we investigate the types, prevalence, and impact of rollback edit inconsistencies and propose a solution to address them. The outcomes of this research are fivefold. First, we manually investigated 764 rollback edits (382 questions + 382 answers) and iden- tified eight types of inconsistent rollback. Second, we surveyed 44 practitioners to assess the impact of rollback inconsistencies. More than 80% of the participants found our identified inconsistency types detrimental to post quality. Third, we developed rule-based algorithms and Machine Learning (ML) models to detect the eight types of rollback inconsistencies. Both approaches achieve over 90% accu- racy. Fourth, we introduced a tool, iEdit, which integrates these algorithms into a browser extension and assists Stack Overflow users during their edits. Fifth, we surveyed 16 Stack Overflow users to evaluate the effectiveness of iEdit. The participants found the tool’s suggestions helpful in avoiding inconsistent rollback edits. 
